we have ensure that as a batch we are ok if you dont know
something.. culture..


Intent first, language next..

what should our intent
to solve customer problem 

history of computer science... Abstraction
if our intent is solve customer problem, then we will prefer
higher levels of abstraction..


keep the presentation and logic separate..

X
file for user interaction, print, input, printf,scanf...
file for logic .. where no print, only logic.
architecture demands that you keep logic and presentation separate.
quick summary.

1. just be loyal to the project and as by product let us
improve our technical skills.. (intent is very important)
2. consequence of 1 is you have to tolerate a lot of uncertainty..
2.1 keep your bp level normal.
2.2 are you willing to write a small program to prove 
your doubt on the concept or syntax is clarified.


https://www.google.com/search?q=architecture&sca_esv=11e2c392c2a54af8&sxsrf=AE3TifMfiXWbg29HebK6xh8xzPcnBV27SQ%3A1758598059563&source=hp&ei=qxPSaM2OILCq4-EPtLrXyQ8&iflsig=AOw8s4IAAAAAaNIhu2uz_QjO4Ct0O7FlUApqBOLEwAht&ved=0ahUKEwiNkJCl-O2PAxUw1TgGHTTdNfkQ4dUDCBo&uact=5&oq=architecture&gs_lp=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_PUjVfa5IHBTEuOS4zoAeVebIHBTAuOS4zuAfZEMIHBzItMi45LjLIB6wB&sclient=gws-wiz

id 
name  -- relevant most of times for  request processing component
it will use it..

semantic web... use tags in the html page which correspond
to what they actually do in the page..

example header, section, main, article, nav...


you can use all the tags in html, but boss in layout making
is css... until you use css dont expect any kind of decent
layouts..


1. in page 30, assignment is given... you complete this assingment
2. setup git software by reading things from confluence
3. page 9 pdf build the html page using semantic tags dont
use any css.

what should be of real interest to us... as a technical person.

1. focused on project.. respect architecture... you will
know what will be folder structure , what will be files..
2. we will drowned in "FREE OPINION  == Frame works" ... so learn to
generalize your learning so that you can remember less.



standard English scrap spoken in IT. Things are changing
so fastwe must update.. all this is scrap.
ask what does not change in IT. learn that...
so learn things which will not change...

first thing to recognize somebody does not know science
is he will tell there are lot of things to learn..

let us all become 4th std kid who is comfortable with 6 subjects
and not act I am specialist I like only one subject, this is scrap

4 std kid with 6 subjects
1. software engineering (1/5)
2. web client.. html, javascript, css.  (3/5)
3. java withspring boot. (3/5)
4. unit testing, devops chain. (2/5)
5. cloud(1/5)
6. ai.(1/5)

all of us have an idea regarding html.. 

second tough journey called CSS.
it is a vast subject and we are just looking an overview..

kids favourite.. expanding abbrevations..
expand CSS   Cascading style sheets.
what is CSS?

it is used to style web page.

what is most important thing to design...
is to accept a tradeoff.

as  technical person our job is to use technology
and not become a sales person for any technology.

way to learn technology.

1. concept.
2. example
3. hello world syntax.
4. your own program should be 3 and other people program should
be 7...
3:7 that is way to prove we understand some x...


before semantic tag came .. we used to use div tags for almost
layout of the page..... in todays world you should consider
using semantic tag..
inyour project 100% consider using semantic tags dont use div.

shortcuts dont work in css....so ensure assignment is completed
first ... and then take your time to learn css systematically
if the need is there in your project...

unnecessary accumulation of information fastest way to reach
the asylum. how to do layouts... 


some terminologies
what is css.
what kind of syntax it has got
where it can be written.
what is box model in css.

Display property in CSS. until we learn this, we can
never say we know layout in css.

display property important I will try to revist on coming
or Friday or coming Monday...




System... in any system equal effort does not work..
effort needs unequal only


in something we spend more time
in something we spend less time.

you have two paragrahs called hello and hi.
while printing hi should not appear in the printout..


what to do.

1. look at the css programs from github..
a03css folder sample programs, try to go thru it.
reference.. go thru some of programs and see are you able to understand the syntax.
2. complete the 9th page of pdf.
2.1 you must have only html page without any css... semantic tags.
2.2 menubar part alone try to complete it as a separate program.
2.3 cards make it as separate program.
2.4 integrated one program.
this approach will give you better exposure to css and enjoy
the uncertainty you encounter..

not knowing what we copied, is a sin.... so understand
if you did any copy paste.... .

1. x.html ( only only html with semantic tags used)
2. head.html and head.css (header part)
3. body.html and body.css (body part)
4. all.html .. actual assignment ( head.html and body.html)
so that you get some time to understand css.( copy head.html
and body.html into this html ... )



quick summary
1. html, whether we are in good mood or bad mood does not
matter we should be conscious which part will change.
this things we will see we will using javascript to make
the changes..
2. depending on how the page will look, layout changes
are needed, layout changes, typically means we should
know css property called display property...

Bootstrap... X what is it.

1. it is a css library...
2. is it the only one, no, there are other libraries also
available.

SASS is css+some benefits...

who is boss for web based presentations?

whenever you make any web based presenation you
have to satisfy this software called  Browser
you tell I will give X, Y,Z, A,B,C ok tell me does
the browser understand you.. if No, figure out ways to
communicate in a way the browser understands..

Browser tells I  like   HTML,CSS  and Javascript..

being good at css is not a bad thing if your job 
web based presentation.. then being good css is a must..
it needs to be learnt systematically.


any technology company wants to tell they are doing the 
greatest thing.... but as a technical person  or more as a science person rule no 1 is not to trust but check.... whether that is correct..


what is Bootstrap. CSS library...
what is BootStrap it is a product..so what will products do
act as though you cant live without them... "addiction"

what will a typical CSS library give us..

1. css library will give lot of css classes..




how do i recognize a bootstrap program.
it will use files given by bootstrap
in the html we will use classes given by bootstrap.


we see the link for bootstrap related css files..
ok... but then show you are using bootstrap related classes
in your code..

all products will have "opinions" and they will tell
this is a fact... but you should know it is an opinion only..


what is CSS, what is bootstrap , what is tailwind.
CSS is a superset.. it is a standard...
bootstrap is one css library  -- opinion
tailwind is another css library...opinion..

is css good or bootstrap good? bad question.

should i use tailwind or should i use bootstrap, good to consider.


1 to 1.5/5 .. do ugly websites... focus on overall project.



when youir project starts..
start using bootstrap...
to use bootstrap.. you must know bootstrap opinion...
what is bootstrap opoinion..
bootstrap dont look only for bootstrap related css file
and bootstrap related js file.. no no no.. along with this
you must see are you using bootstrap related classes with
your html... 













what you should understand.

1. boot strap is a css library... what does it mean
it will give you lot of css classes and it has an opinion
how to do layouts... if we are using bootstrap.. we should
learn this opinion...


most brutal and ferocious force any company can face 
is "business "


once upon a time in internet in the browser if you had
play audio or video.. you needed something called "Real player
then what happened... browsers by default had players to play
video and audio so nobody needs real player.


once upon a time to read pdf you needed Acrobat reader...


in 2015 onwards.... css standard itself starting getting
this feature called flex, grid.... in layouts.. so for layouts
do you want to use bootstrap or yu want to use css only is
a call you should take..

in your project... for layouts do you want to use bootstrap
or do you want to use css flex or grid ... is a choice
left to you... if you ask my opinion... layouts you control
it by using css properties like flex or grid and dont use
bootstrap... for dialogs.. etc.. use bootstrap..

NO I will use bootstrap everywhere.. ok that also is a opinion
you can consider..

you have to decide and half way not shift from one to other
in the project..


now you understand the word "opinion"






using boot strap means.

1. knowing its opinion first.. 12 column.
2. know what classes do.
3. then use it in our html.
4. best approach dont write your own first.. understand
existing programs and then try..

if time permits try writng a page which uses only css
and then try bootstrap to see what differences you see..


1. opinion... 12 column layout
2. usage of bootstrap related classes.



in the pdf there are three assingments..

1. form validation assingmnet. pg 39
2. home page.. html and css no javascript
3. last page... html and bootstrap.. no javascript.

all the assingments will test how much you can tolerate
uncertainty and learn on need basis.




29th September 2025.


obviously the way we covered is so shallow in css. that is design
also of this course..


1.check whether bootstrap works in youir system how...
2. check git  --version.
3.  continue with your page 9 assignment... home page of sc..
4. remember there is a bootstrap assignment.. how to approach
it tomorrow..
Thank you we will catch up tomorrow.











