Intent first language next..


quick story about what we are supposed to do.

assumption.
html, css ,boot strap pdf.
1. html validation assignment ( everybody has done it ).. red flag
2. home page which uses only html and css... ( doing... )
3. bootstrap assignment home page...  ( not started  --started... lightly )

javascript
1. Fibonacci multiples ( done )
2. bootstrap and html form without css ( doing ) -- currently high priority
3. bootstrap and html form without css ( not started or may be started) currently high priority

software setup
1. git  setup ( 100% done)
2. node js ( nearly done..)


Today.
1. we will will start with hello world git..we will do almost everything
except get things from cloud, push things to cloud..
2. continue javascript adventure... as part of it, we will discuss
the most important thing called function assignment, Event handling.
3. if time permits we will see meaning of contacting server...


javascript
1. access parts of the page.
2. contact server, pass some data, get some data from server eventually.
fetch.. in javascript.... promise... async .. await..
3. update the page.
4. validation..... on need basis ...dynamic decoration..

difference github and git..

what is git..

I dont have any azure or github.. i am just a pc I can use git here also.
just one one pc...


we are in a project in real life,, it means there is a repo on the cloud.. or on some
server..

1. we know authentication information and then we clone it.(we dont know
this... we will skip this as of now.. this is very simple step.. )
2. we will create a folder.. all projects will be a folder first...

no matter whatever i work on, if i am not conscious about my folder structure
what they mean then I am a unconscious programmer

we have folder. currently we did not get this projectfolder from cloud..
1. git init


create a folder called gitpoc..
git init in that folder.


you have a folder which can work with git commands... how did you
ensure, git init in that folder..



we are issuing git commands from command prompt. or githash or some ui
tool fix the approach..


1. do you know how to open gitbash.
2. come to the folder where you used git init or come to repository folder


1. check git is working.. git --version
2. configure git with username and email.
3. have a folder where we have done git init.. no needed in real project
because we would have cloned
4. either command prompt or gitbash does not matter come to the project folder.




1. you know your project folder.
2. let us see what all branches are there in repo..
3. we created a new branch and went to that branch.. by using a command
git checkout -b loginbranch
4. we create a new file...
5. open visual code and create a.txt file with some content in that project project
folder.

git operates thru

1. working folder a.txt
2. staging area.  --move it here... in case you want to change it remove it...
3. repo  - commit 




we are back to javascript.

1. Event handling.
2. javascript functions like map, foreach,filter.
basis for this is going to be our yesterday
function and variable picture.

what is meaning of Event?



any person who use alert box in the project is a pathetic
person he should removed from the project.

those who focus only on syntax, enjoy unlimited misery
in life everyday...






<button onclick="showText()">Show Text</button>
we are registering for the event called onclick
on the button.
we  are a event listener.
we are telling the system hey when the click happens
on the button call the function showText.

onclick="showText()"  ( function assignment.)
we are telling system taht when the onclick happens.
then call the function..

f1 function in the code
1. we are calling it
2. we are defining it
3. we are assigning it

if we are event listener.
then our job will (suresh)

1. define the function
2. assing the function


who will call it..event source (Ramesh)


Today 

flight from Chennai to Trichy...is cancelled
all of us will get message saying flight is cancelled.
why you disagree? we have not booked the ticket for that flight
we have not registered for the event.
since we did not register event source will not know about us.



we have not created the event for that... 

we have not registered for the event..


English professors will come to React... and talk about this thing called Hooks



if you dont generalize your learning, suffer.. suffer suffer... because
we are not  a science person. so live and die in vocabulary...


too many things to remember   == "science is absent"





http request words..

Get
Post  events in http

Interrupt event in os

Trigger event in the database 
 
onClick event at the ui level

whocares mindmap remains same.


0. git some basics we know...
concept of .gitignore.. we can mention of some folders and files that will
not be part of git.. repository..
1. all are events..


Arrays...

1. it is indicated by  [  ] in javascript
2. it can contain any type of element.
3. size can change..

again function assignment..








this array also is not great , cars array, fruits array both are not great..
why... in reall ife array will objects.. which are project specific.




for doing sorting?
how to compare two things..  >,< and == .. predicate functions..
how old is this story 50 years old...
till today it has not changed..



those who dont know function assignment will be dead in every programming language.


function assignment.
1. think of two people..

1. it is the person   "X" has created javascript..  Ramesh. 
2. "we  == you and I" .. are users of javascript.  ... Suresh.
3.  foreach is the function we want to call, but it is written by X.
4. X is telling us hey if you want to call for each, they you must define a function
called anyting, but it should take only one input and it should not return anything.



during function assignment.

there is a standard thing which we will do.


1. call a function written by some else let us f2.
2. we will define f1.. which will based on what is f2 is telling.
3. we will call f2 and pass f1 to it
f2(f1);


we are calling a function f1..

f1();

you must be conscious who is calling the function..

function assignment..

function f1(forced1,forced2)
{

}


f2(f1);  //f2 will decide what is input of f1 an what is return type of f1.

100% be sure f1 function definition and calling of f2 is done by the same person.-- Person Y
calling of f1 and definition of f2 is done by some other person called Person X.
Y has to be slave of X.

f1 == f1 function in the code.


if you do function assignment that function is being defined by us and called by somebody else.




what does forEach.

1. it takes an input as a function. this function must compulsorily get two arguments.
2. what does foreach do, take each element of the array, and call the function by supplying
the first argument as the array element and second argument as the index.

















  const car2025 = cars.find(kidinfant);
  //the function we are passing to find what does it return boolean


  function kidinfant(car)
  {
    return car.year === 2016;
  }

find function will dictate how kidinfant function should be defined...

why do functions need another function as input..?
person who wrote the function cannot assume about some part of the logic..
so he tells you write the logic and give it to me as a function, I will use it
in doing things..




find function guy will not know what is content of the array.
that means he cannot decide meaning of search...
so what he does he tells I will do one thing,, start taking each element
from the array and giving to you... you tell me when you found it...
that time return true, this English is written in form a function and then assingned
to find.




1. complete your assingments.
2. in javascript pdf more javascript assingments are there in pages, try that one also
3. go thru the javascript sample programs.

































