name.
which college you did you engineering from. which place.
which branch of engineering.










we will live week by week..

1. get some basics on web technology... you have do some assingments.
nothing called project work in first week..
2. assignment doing... using ai tool more like tutor is ok, but unconscious
copy pasting of code is big sin, we should never do it..
3. all the 4 weeks, everything that will be explained will be simple.
and no complicated thing will be spoken..
if intent is to apply, then we cannot complicate things..
4. doubts...ask directly in the class..
who want to ask doubts anonymously...
https://forms.gle/mSZW7KRSHKW141qt6
5. what you will be doing..



c:\users\bankid\bootcamp\html reference... you keep the pdf here..




no matter whatever is technology a person who is not clear about
his folder structure is pathetic person..


goldenversions

bootcamp


checklist.
1. have you got visual code folder in your goldenversions..
2. in your bootcamp folder.. you have folder htmlprograms\ reference\ pdf..
3. you have created a shortcut for viscual code in your desktop... (trivial but importan t)

always use proper nowns while talking that is only way to make other people understand

tell something and tell for example...


Web technology?
what is web ?
web you must use http protocol.


it is a page on the internet..
what is internet?
wireless mode of signals..

web
event.
api
all these words have technical meaning and people should its meaning first..

practicals is important.. but without theory.. you will do practicals for 1000 years..
and still be zero in the subject.

totally agreed practicals matter we should talk only theory but zero theory
is a sin... the person will create misery in the project.
for example what is web..


IN a system every thing small as well as big is important. but 
what we should do, know what is our role and learn a little bit about
other person roles also...

what do you mean by deploy?
can you take the page and make it available via http requests..
who will access it depends on the business logic.

file:///F:/work/sep25_sctraining/a02html/sampleprograms/a00view.html
so we have a web page, but no web application...

our job is to learn html, css ,bootstrap and javascript this week.

what is purpose of html.
html decides the structure of the web page while building web based presentations.
for example

I am building a html page... ok I need some layout, i need some header, i need
the body to be made into 3 sections.. i Need a footer. I needa  form....
this is called as structure of the web page..

start doing home work in terms of what colors, what fonts standarded chartered
uses and start imitating the same dont show creativity...


First think what to cook ,then we will how to cook?
start cooking and then find out what we cooked, pathetic.

all these things will happen on week1

1. html + css.
2. html+ bootstrap
3.html+bootstrap+javascript.

keep your bp level normal...


for a topic called X which is the best website?
what is your answer?
official website. always..
which is official website for html, css, javascript.... MDN .. gret answer.
that is official one..

first read official website and then other freaky websites..


example of freakly websites..  geekforgeek.. pathetic...
stackoverflow..

some tags will introduce a new line..  -- box tags
and some tags will not introduce a new line  -- inline tags

talking about block alone will not make sense in html, you should take into consideration
css also.. only then talking about block will make sense..

kids hate constraints, adults like constrain

people who dont know theory and tell I will do only practicals should not talk
about science..


PATH -- is a variable used by Operating system to locate executable files.
.


to save the location of folder or like absolute path of root directory.
defines the location of where content is stored..
tht is where we define most of binary files of our example like programming
langauges aa re....


what is a tree datastructure?
connected graph without cycles.

we are trying to learn html, css first.. and then do some praccticals
and then learn javascript and hten mix all the 3.. that is only way you can
build  web page..




http://127.0.0.1:5500/sep25_sctraining/a02html/sampleprograms/a02somemoresyntax.html

why are input elements used in html?
to take inputs from the user.
example want to take userid and password..

example textbox, radio button....

why use a form tag in html?

why form tag,, group information.
presence of form tag tells two things.
1. we plan to group the information and send it to place called X
where X will be taking that information and processing it..


for anything which is non textbox ensure you give value...
when things are submitted.. value will be known at the processing place.

kids are afraid of compilation errors. adults are afraid of logical errors.

get and post...


<form action="whereotprocesstherequest" method="get">

what is get and post..
get is used to show information as part of the url.
post carries information as part of the body..

dont compare things which have different denominators..

before telling this is better, prove you know denominator is same.


https://www.redbus.in/search?fromCityName=Mangalore%20Bypass&fromCityId=71819&srcCountry=IND&fromCityType=CITY&toCityName=Mysore&toCityId=129&destCountry=IND&toCityType=CITY&onward=23-Sep-2025&doj=23-Sep-2025&ref=home


Never use the word "Security" until you have done 4 a4 sheet pages of homework..\

security involves process and technology dont insult it by only technology..


post and get.
1. both are mode of requests in http..
2. in get mode information is sent part of header.
3, in post mode information is sent part of body..



server sends information to the client in post mode or in get mode by default?
hey why are you asking me this stupid question.. server sending informationto the client
is called Response









