0. what we need to do.
1. javascript
2. git..


css is a ocean and your project needs css..

when we say css.. real thing to ensure that layout is fixed correctly
we have option of using.

1. css without any framework.
2. bootstrap.
outside these two options dont touch anything else.




1. generalize your learning.
2. tolerate uncertainty.. I dont know something can i write a small program to clarify
my concept or syntax.


what we need to do.

basic rule decision making will always be better if you take time perspective..


1. we need some common layouts irrespective of the domain.. we are in..
header
footer.
grid


in real life.. ghosts needs to come to earth.

ghosts == intent without details...

all of us have to think we are 4th std kids and we have multiple subjects to deal with and not
just one..

1. html+ css.
2. javascript
3. git.
4. react

-------------------------------------
Dont touch bootstrap. but try to understand demo bootstrap programs.. and we will
see how to approach bootstrap. slowly...

1. continue to focus on css....
2. javascript
3. git part.



Keep good intent... how to make project successful.
to work in a group... knowing some basics will help... 

basics.. 100% clean intent and zero manipulation
1. effective executive by peter drucker.
2. managing oneself by peter drucker.
I am 100% sure these are not personality developments... generalized way of looking
at things..

---------------------------------------------
Javascript..

we are going to use react framework in reactframework we code by using javascript.
programming language..
why are we learning it... answer is we are building web based presentation.

we are dealing with a programming language..

who is a programmer...
1. a programmer is a person who can some body English and convert that into
functions and variables fitting in a particular architecture.

programmer has to do things..

1. show he is useful in a project... by understanding architecture and writing code
which fits into the architecture.
2. technically he must be 5/5 in functions and variables..



out of 100 people in IT industry including all colleges
may be 2 or 3 may be 5/5 in funtions and variables remaining people are pathetic
English professors talking jargons.. This is disgusting, but that is reality.

let us keep the intent as being a technical person and not act like a technical person..


how to take revenge on team memember
ask somebody to define a function and tell everybody dont call it.
only typing improved...


what is function assignment 
passing a function as an input to another function.


f1(f2);

in the colleges the pathetic thing that happens and it takes alot of time sometime
impossible is they get addicted to only int type.... live and die in int.... but projects
are not about int...

people should know passing things to a function as input or retuning from
functions are assingments..


int i=3;
f1(i);


function assignment..
1. we are calling a function let us say f1.
2. while calling this f1 function we are passing another function called f2 as input to the f1
function.


f1(3);
we are calling f1, we are passing an int to it.


f1(f2);
we are calling f1 function we are passing another function called f2 to it.  == function
assignment super important thing in every programming language... without this
zero projects..






i=3

int i =3;

let i =3;

$k =3; //php
who cares for the language. one thing is for sure, any variable created must
belong to some data type..

what is data type?
what operations you can perform on the variable.. and obviously based on that content.


int i =3;
i = i -1;
print i.
//I will not focus on the operations ok then any type is ok for you.

String s ="Hello"
s=s -"Hell";
print s.
why it will not print o..
- operation is not defined on the string.


String s="Hell"
s = s+"o";
print s.




i=3  you dont need to mention the data type , python wil infer

let i =3;/javascript... it has data type


int i=3; it has data types





int i =3;

any person who is not 5/5 in functions and variables, dont call yourself as a programmer.

ok we are starting with javascript.. same thing.. be 5/5 in functions and variables. first..
no I wont be.. ok then English is there use it and chew other people brain...


let us aim for 5/5 in javascript as far functions and variables goes.. is it possible
yes... will take 100 years no... it will  just take 1 day... you must priotize this..



javascript..

1. javascript is full fledged programming language we are using to build
web based presentation. that means..

by using javascript. we are planning to run it in the browser..

1. by using javascript we will do the following.


1. access parts of the html page.
2. contact server, pass some data, get some data.. finally...
3. based on data given by server, update the html page ( Routing)

what will be challenges we will face....
1. are we 5/5 in functions and variables..
2. in html are we concious about ...

what will change in the html..


If I have to change some part of the html, what is most important syntax..
i should remember..   Id  attribute

quick summary.
1. working in a group of people needs a process, good to learn it... effective executive.
2. in terms of working.... think of css from a project point of view, despite
not knowing what your project is.
3. remember you are 4th std kid.. you cannot have one subject multiple subjects
live with .. , html, css, javascript, 
4. remember in CSS.. layouts part is hardest thing, so start spending time on it.
5. javascript... know the theory what it means to be 5/5 in functions and variables..
6. we are using javascript for web based presentation so.
6.1 access parts of the html (ID)
6.2 call server, send data, get data..
6.3 update the page... ( ID)


Javascript.. first thing to remember, RESPECT JAVASCRIPT AS A NEW LANGAUGGE WE ARE ZERO
IN IT.. SO WE WILL LEARN EVERYTHING FRM BASICS....
i KNOW PYTHON, SO i WILL MANAGE JAVASCRIPT..
i KNOW JAVA, SO I WILL MANAGE JAVASCRIPT
SEE YOU IN hELL.


https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide
https://javascript.info/



let i =3;// javascript will not judge the data type of the variable until 
let k = i -1;// 100% now know that i is a number type..

you stat performing opoerations on it..

something you encountered in

C
python
C++
java
javascript.
RDBM


interactiveness.

1. reacting to events, (when you do something, change some part of the page.)
2. valiation
3. contact server send some data and get some data..
you need javascript.

11.15AM we will join back..













we are going to use javascript in context of the browser. so what are the ways.

1. you can write it in a separate file and link it up
2. head region... after the body tag is over.. at the end of the html page..
3. you can write at element level also..

javascript there are multiple ways of creating variables.

we will use

1. let
2. const
3. var... we will discuss this later very old style , in todays world
you should not use this.. in todays world last 15 years..



let x =null;
it means one day x will be an object, but currently it is not having anything..

you can use null for comparison

if ( x == null)
  ok i now x is not having any object, i will put one..

to tell a local variable you must see a function...
dont use the word local variable until you see  variable created
a inside a function..


get used to habit of reading things from official places and not freaky places.

why objects are created?
because project demands it.

my project.
my here.. indicates objects..

object is project specific data type..

when we are calling other people function.. which is case most of time...
until we open documentation we will know not know purpose of function
what does it return, what does input indicate..

Strings..
why is string important, human begins like strings.. for everything..
please we want to name it , see it... etc.. that is reason it is important
in the project also...

Every person who tells I know  programming language... must learn strings
because in every project it comes.. why 

let x ="hi";
let y = x.toUpperCase();
console.log(x);

how to convert a number to a string
string to a number..

in javascript there are different ways of creating functions...
1. by using function keyword
2. by using arrow.
3. by creating function inside the class.. it is has got a different syntax.

definer of the function must know what is data type is expecting
by looking at the function any other person cannot make out the data type
of the input being passed.



 let sayGoodbye = function(name) {
    console.log("Goodbye, " + name + "! This is an anonymous function stored in a variable.");
  };

we are defininga  function whose input is a variable called name
and we are assigning this function to a variable called saygoodBye.









none of the syntax we used a freaky syntax, these are used 100% inthe project frequently that is reason it is there in the code...

we will keep getting doubts while working on a project, but the most important
question are you willing to write a small program which will clarify your doubt..
for most people in IT industry answer is no, they are scared to death to write
a new program because .... technically poor..

if you are confused about this... they go step by step...


1. some function is defined 

2. some function is being called.

3. in 2, we are passing 1 as an input.




to understand function assignment.. first thing you should know there will be two
people and not one person...


let us Ramesh and suresh are two people.

Ramesh writes a function and its input argument is another function.
let us Ramesh writes f1 function.. it doing some job called x, its input
argument is another function.
void f1(x)
{
console.log("doing some important job");
x();

}


suresh is going to call Ramesh function f1. because Ramesh function
needs input as another function, suresh is forced to define a function called f2.
and then call Ramesh function f1....
function f2()
{
console.log("ok Ramesh i agree to you");

}
call Ramesh function
f1(f2);

suresh has defined the function f2, calling the Ramesh function f1 
and assigning f2 while calling f1... must know what Ramesh is expecting from
f2 and ensure that is done...




function assignment ensure ... you are knowing two people are there...





















addiction to syntax makes them a horrible person technically..

oh no you are telling becuae you got experience, no nono.

a person can have 25 years in IT and still be pathetic... so in IT yoiu should
never take anybody experience serioiusly. who knows what they know let them prove
it inthe project...

















