Agile... intent .. matters, only then process.
if my intent is wrong I can convert any process into a funeral.


what is meaning of intent for you..
1. can you get into details


Hope yesterday
git worked for all you locally.
gitignore...  is a file. and we should add it to repo and commit it.
what will this file contains.

1. all things git should not track.

1. initial project folder. that project folder has got gitignore already present and it is commited..
this .gitignore should all things which are not project specific..


Today story.
1. javascript adventure.... 
2. node, react... because we are talking about this we are going npm.
3. hello world react working.
4. revisit git again with an assignment. only thing now we will .gitignore.. to the party. revision one small change
5. review everybody assingments..


in terms of assingments.
1. javascript pdf. html page with bootstrap.. high priority..
2. css home.. html pdf .. moderate priority.
3. css home .. bootstrap.. moderate priority

1. relax and keep your bp level normal.





what is real thing..

our topic is function assignment.

1.you will see function calling, function assignment and function definition when you say function assignment
in real life.


think of two people.. Ramesh and Suresh..
f2 = find, foreach,map, filter... these are not written by us... these are written
javascript guys.. 
function assignment is done by Suresh..
f2(f1); //suresh is calling the function written by Ramesh
// we want to call foreach, filter, map....

we should write a function.. after knowing what foeach, map or filter requires..


//suresh is writing f1
function f1(whateverrameshtells)
{
logic is suresh...
return whateverrameshtells

}




foreach
map
filter..

without js nobody can write any javascript project.... in react we will dead and buried
in case we dont know these syntaxes and just talking jargons will kill us.

functions and varaibles that should be our focus when we call ourselves "programmer"




forEach
find.
map.
filter.


when we are very poor technically then only thing we can read is variable name.
technical person talk thru data types.. and not thru variablenames..












Function assignment need is there...

two people are there Ramesh and Suresh..

1. Ramesh is doing an important function called filter on Array..
2. but Ramesh does not care what is content of the array.
3. he is telling suresh or Mahesh hey boss hwne you call my filter function
you pass me a function. which will return boolean, I will supply you as input
the element of the array...hey suresh and mahehs if you feel it meets your critiera
return true else return false.
4. meaning of 3 point, is basis of filtering should be decided by suresh or Mahesh
and  Ramesh does not care... he will simply use the suresh given criteria
and do it..


welcome to the world of problem solving.

1. rule no 1.. if you dont know context dont solve the problem.


all of this , the language does not matter will use ... function assignment...
because definer of the function willnot know the complext context.. context should
be provided by the caller of the function.
caller provides the context by defining a function and assigning the function while
calling the function of other person..

While explaining a concept stay from example, stay away syntax. just talk about
the concept...


1. foreach.
2. filter.
3. find.
4. map
5. sort.



function assignment...
because definer of the function will not know the complete context.. 
context should be provided by the caller of the function.
caller provides the context by defining a function and 
assigning the function while calling the function of other person..


example.
filter. function is already present in javascript... 
the person who wrote filter function will not know what the array will contain
will not know on what criteria filtering has to be done.

He tells the caller of the function, We.. they define a function which will
return boolean, input will the element of the array. you decide when
you feel it meets the criteria if yes return true...

filter function will call the function given by supplying each element
in the array.


function assignment 

1. we define a function
2. we assign our function while calling some other person function.






sorting..
sorting criteria that is most important thing, which one is big, small and equal.
multiple sorting criteria in real life depending on user..

1. you copy paste some examples on

two examples and prove you understood.

1. array should have objects and not string or int..
2. try the below functions
 foreach
 map
 filter
 sort.
arrow function.
3, those who completed please go thru javascript.pdf.

what are you supposed to do.

1. complete the earlier assingments on css, javascript assingments..
2. javascript pdf page 31,42,


we will today start with react.. as a consequence we will understand what npm
does.. lot of terminolgoies..




a=f1();

x=y

first look at y and then make judgement about x..
that is how assignment works..


bigger problems in python or javascript is way we  learn it..
language syntax does not matter basics of function and variable remains same.


Colleges create misery for students by making them get addicted to just int or string.
that itself creates 99% of problems in project.

Simple example... and then show all the concepts ...   I will use int... to keep kids happy
convert the example into a complex example. show all the concepts
object.
show concepts are same..

are you willing to write a small program when you have a doubt.
are you willing to write a small program when you have a doubt.
are you willing to write a small program when you have a doubt.
are you willing to write a small program when you have a doubt.
are you willing to write a small program when you have a doubt.
are you willing to write a small program when you have a doubt.
are you willing to write a small program when you have a doubt.
are you willing to write a small program when you have a doubt.



The fastest way to amplify misery when in misery is be disorganized.


syntax is a function of time.
concept is not..

after copy pasting prove you understood.

event handling also will not be working.. but htey will write further code...
go step by step dont write poems..

welcome to consciousness.
you must what you are accessing... in our case we are accessing textbox
we must know we are accessing radio button
we must know we are accessing parapgrah...

Habit of writing few lines looking at output, writing few lines and looking output
is what we need, this needs more of patience than intelligence..

1. look at the image and understand the code.
2. page 42 assignment of javascript.pdf.
3. page 31 assignment of javascript.pdf.
4. in case you have not completed the earlier assignment of map, filter, sort, foreach
complete it.





AS a technical person we would  not like to get addicted to anything..


generalize your learning..

what is playstore, or Appstore?
which consists of all the apps.
centralize place for all apps.

npm is a package manager for javascript.


Expectation on Monday 29th September 2025

most important you must  explain line by line.
1. all assignments of javascript.pdf
2. home page with css on the html pdf.
3. validation page on the html pdf.
4. bootstrap home page pending is ok..




































